Verify and update OTLP trace exporter documentation (#2053)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go: exporters/otlp/otlptrace/README.md

> # Otlptrace Exporter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# OpenTelemetry-Go OTLP Span Exporter

OpenTelemetry Protocol (OTLP) Span Exporter
```

based on:
- https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go/blob/main/exporters/jaeger/README.md
- https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/trace/sdk.md#span-exporter
- https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/protocol/otlp.md

Author: ok👌🏻

To constructs a new Otlptrace Exporter and starts it:
```
exp, err := otlptrace.New(ctx, opts...)
```
# Otlptrace Client
Otlptrace package define a trace exporter that uses a `otlptrace.Client` .

`otlptrace.Client` manages connections to the collector, handles the transformation of data into wire format, 
and the transmission of that data to the collector.

# Otlptracegrpc and Otlptracehttp
The otlptracegrpc and otlptracehttp implements a gRPC `otlptrace.Client` and 
an HTTP `otlptrace.Client`respectively,

> both offering convenience functions .

Reviewer: This for sure would not pass the markdownlint.
I personally use https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=DavidAnson.vscode-markdownlint

Author: I am so glad to receive all your suggestion.
I have already updated my PR, please review it.
Thnak u~

## Installation

```
go get -u go.opentelemetry.io/otel/exporters/otlp/otlptrace

> ```

Reviewer: this should go first

Author: ok👌🏻

# OpenTelemetry-Go OTLP Span Exporter

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

[![Go Reference](https://pkg.go.dev/badge/go.opentelemetry.io/otel/exporters/otlp/otlptrace.svg)](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/otel/exporters/otlp/otlptrace)

```

OpenTelemetry Protocol (OTLP) Span Exporter.

> To constructs a new Otlptrace Exporter ,you can follow this 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To constructs a new OTLP trace Exporter, you can follow this 
```

 [`example`](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go/blob/main/exporters/otlp/otlptrace/example_test.go).

## Installation

```
go get -u go.opentelemetry.io/otel/exporters/otlp/otlptrace
```

## [`otlptrace`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/otel/exporters/otlp/otlptrace)

The `otlptrace` package provides an exporter implementing the OTel span exporter interface.
This exporter is configured using a client satisfying the `otlptrace.Client` interface.
This client handles the transformation of data into wire format and the transmission of that data to the collector.

## [`otlptracegrpc`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/otel/exporters/otlp/otlptrace/otlptracegrpc)

The `otlptracegrpc` package implements a gRPC client to be used in the span exporter.

##  [`otlptracehttp`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/otel/exporters/otlp/otlptrace/otlptracehttp)

> The `otlptracehttp` package implements a HTTP client to be used in the span exporter.

Reviewer: We miss information about configuration via environmental variables. I am not sure which are supported (you would need to check the code/godoc/changelog). Here are the docs for the env vars that in theory should be supported: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/protocol/exporter.md.

Here is a README how the env vars are documented for Jaeger exporter: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go/blob/main/exporters/jaeger/README.md#environment-variables

Reviewer: I hope this will help you: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go/blob/d5d4c87f6d2581fdcd3f716155912f7be66dfd85/exporters/otlp/otlpmetric/internal/otlpconfig/envconfig.go#L70-L138

Reviewer: I hope this will help you; https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go/blob/d5d4c87f6d2581fdcd3f716155912f7be66dfd85/exporters/otlp/otlptrace/internal/otlpconfig/envconfig.go#L70-L137

Reviewer 2: @pellared can you add this in a follow on PR?

Reviewer: @MrAlias Added to my TODO list. I will try to do it next week.

Reviewer 2: > @MrAlias Added to my TODO list. I will try to do it next week.

:tada: thanks :smile:

Reviewer: PR: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go/pull/2222

# OpenTelemetry-Go OTLP Span Exporter

OpenTelemetry Protocol (OTLP) Span Exporter.

To constructs a new Otlptrace Exporter and starts it:

```
exp, err := otlptrace.New(ctx, opts...)

> ```

Reviewer: 1. This snippet does not really help
1.  `otlptrace.New` does not accept `opts`. It accepts `client` which factory functions accepts options

I would rather prefer having an example similar to this one https://github.com/Submarinee/opentelemetry-go/blob/main/exporters/stdout/stdouttrace/example_test.go and put a hyperlink to it in README.

As for me, you can also consider simply removing this section. No information is better than misleading information 😉

Author: Can I understand your suggestion as the following ?
1. Delete line 5-9.
2. In the otlptracegrpc directory, create example_test.go file containing an example for  creating otlptracegrpc (similar to this one https://github.com/Submarinee/opentelemetry-go/blob/main/exporters/stdout/stdouttrace/example_test.go) 
3. Put  the hyperlink to the example_test.go fil in README

Reviewer: Yes 👍

Author: I have already created the example_test.go file ,maybe it is not correct.
If it contains some mistakes ,hope you can help me modify it.
thank u~

Reviewer: I have found out that we have an existing example here: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go/tree/main/example/otel-collector. I was not aware of it - I have found it when I was reviewing your code. I think it would be enough to reference it instead of creating yet another example.

Also please take a look at: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#documentation and update the docs accordingly.

Author: Can I understand your suggestion as the following ?
1.delete the example_test.go file I wrote several days ago
2.Change the hyperlink to  [https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go/tree/main/example/otel-collector](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go/tree/main/example/otel-collector)

Author: But I still wonder why [ https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go/tree/main/example/otel-collector]( https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go/tree/main/example/otel-collector) can be an appropriate example in otlptrace exporter document.
I regard it as a good example of collector rather than a good example of exporter.
Can you explain it to me?

Reviewer: After looking again I think that you are correct that the https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go/tree/main/example/otel-collector may be too complex. 

I am OK with keeping `example_test.go`. Still, I think it is worth adding a hyperlink to https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go/tree/main/example/otel-collector in the `README.md`.

> # Installation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Installation
```

> OpenTelemetry Protocol (OTLP) Span Exporter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[OpenTelemetry Protocol Exporter](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/v1.5.0/specification/protocol/exporter.md) implementation.
```

Author: I can also adopt this when I create otlpmetric README

>  [`example`](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go/blob/main/exporters/otlp/otlptrace/example_test.go).

Reviewer: the hyperlink should be relative. Here is an example of how to do it: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go/main/exporters/jaeger/README.md

Personally, instead of putting the info here, I would put the following section after `Installation` section:

```
## Examples

- [example_test.go](example_test.go)
- [../../example/otel-collector](../../example/otel-collector)
```

Author: I agree with you .
 Before you wrote your comment, I have just improved the example section according to [https://raw.githubusercontent.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go/main/exporters/jaeger/README.md](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go/main/exporters/jaeger/README.md).
I am so glad that the way I improve the doc is so consistent with yours.

```
go get -u go.opentelemetry.io/otel/exporters/otlp/otlptrace
```

> # Otlptrace Client
> 
> Otlptrace package define a trace exporter that uses a `otlptrace.Client` .
> 
> `otlptrace.Client` manages connections to the collector, handles the transformation of data into wire format,
> and the transmission of that data to the collector.
> 
> # Otlptracegrpc and Otlptracehttp
> 
> The otlptracegrpc and otlptracehttp implements a gRPC `otlptrace.Client` and
> an HTTP `otlptrace.Client`respectively,
> both offering convenience functions .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## [`otlptrace`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/otel/exporters/otlp/otlptrace)

`otlptrace` package implements a span exporter that uses a `otlptrace.Client` interface.

`otlptrace.Client` manages connections to the collector, handles the transformation of data into wire format,
and the transmission of that data to the collector.

## [`otlptracegrpc`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/otel/exporters/otlp/otlptrace/otlptracegrpc)

The `otlptracegrpc` package implements a gRPC span exporter.

##  [`otlptracehttp`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/otel/exporters/otlp/otlptrace/otlptracehttp)

The `otlptracehttp` package implements a HTTP span exporter.
```

> The `otlptracehttp` package implements a HTTP client to be used in the span exporter.

Reviewer: The [specs](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/protocol/exporter.md#specify-protocol) mentions two kinds of HTTP protocols. Which one is it? Both and it's configurable or just one of them?

Reviewer: Found in godoc:

> Package otlptracehttp a client that sends traces to the collector using HTTP with binary protobuf payloads.

Author: According to your description,I think the specify protocol is http/protobuf.
Am I wrong?

Author: Do I need to add the specified protocol to README?

Reviewer: Yes. Please add it.

Reviewer 2: Updated, PTAL.

# OpenTelemetry-Go OTLP Span Exporter

OpenTelemetry Protocol (OTLP) Span Exporter.

To constructs a new Otlptrace Exporter and starts it:

```
exp, err := otlptrace.New(ctx, opts...)
```

## Installation

```
go get -u go.opentelemetry.io/otel/exporters/otlp/otlptrace
```

## [`otlptrace`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/otel/exporters/otlp/otlptrace)

> `otlptrace` package implements a span exporter that uses a `otlptrace.Client` interface.
> 
> `otlptrace.Client` manages connections to the collector, handles the transformation of data into wire format,
> and the transmission of that data to the collector.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `otlptrace` package provides an exporter implementing the OTel span exporter interface.
This exporter is configured using a client satisfying the `otlptrace.Client` interface.
This client handles the transformation of data into wire format and the transmission of that data to the collector.
```

## [`otlptracegrpc`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/otel/exporters/otlp/otlptrace/otlptracegrpc)

> The `otlptracegrpc` package implements a gRPC span exporter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `otlptracegrpc` package implements a gRPC client to be used in the span exporter.
```

##  [`otlptracehttp`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/otel/exporters/otlp/otlptrace/otlptracehttp)

> The `otlptracehttp` package implements a HTTP span exporter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `otlptracehttp` package implements a HTTP client to be used in the span exporter.
```

# OpenTelemetry-Go OTLP Span Exporter

[![Go Reference](https://pkg.go.dev/badge/go.opentelemetry.io/otel/exporters/otlp/otlptrace.svg)](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/otel/exporters/otlp/otlptrace)

[OpenTelemetry Protocol Exporter](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/v1.5.0/specification/protocol/exporter.md) implementation.

## Installation

```
go get -u go.opentelemetry.io/otel/exporters/otlp/otlptrace
```

> ## Example

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Examples
```

> - [example_test.go](example_test.go)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Exporter setup and examples](example_test.go)
```

> - [../../example/otel-collector](../../example/otel-collector)

Reviewer: my bad

```suggestion
- [../../../example/otel-collector](../../../example/otel-collector)
```

> - [../../../example/otel-collector](../../../example/otel-collector)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Full example sending telemetry to a local collector](../../../example/otel-collector)
```

# OpenTelemetry-Go OTLP Span Exporter

[![Go Reference](https://pkg.go.dev/badge/go.opentelemetry.io/otel/exporters/otlp/otlptrace.svg)](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/otel/exporters/otlp/otlptrace)

OpenTelemetry Protocol (OTLP) Span Exporter.

## Installation

```
go get -u go.opentelemetry.io/otel/exporters/otlp/otlptrace
```

## Example

> To constructs a new OTLP trace Exporter, you can follow this

Reviewer: should be "span exporter"

Author: You mean it should be change as

Reviewer: I am lazy and I am suggesting https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go/pull/2053/files#r679920638 😉

> [`OTLP Trace Exporter Example`](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go/blob/main/exporters/otlp/otlptrace/example_test.go).

Reviewer: Hyperlinks within the same repo should be "relative" as I pointed in a previous comment.

Author: Ok, I will change it to relative path.

Reviewer: I am lazy and I am suggesting https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go/pull/2053/files#r679920638 😉

Also,if you are not familiar with how to export trace and metric data from the OpenTelemetry-Go SDK to
the OpenTelemetry Collector, you can reference this

> [`OpenTelemetry Collector Traces Example`](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go/tree/main/example/otel-collector).

Reviewer: The title is wrong as it also describes metrics. I suggest just putting hyperlinks to the examples. Easier to have everything in sync.

Reviewer: I am lazy and I am suggesting https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go/pull/2053/files#r679920638 😉

> [`OpenTelemetry Collector Traces Example`](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go/tree/main/example/otel-collector).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [example_test.go](example_test.go)
- [../../example/otel-collector](../../example/otel-collector)
``
